Blog: How to format and declutter browser console (#28)
tsl143/itsopensource: content/blog/how-to-format-and-declutter-browser-console/index.md

```Javascript
const a = 1;
console.assert(a===1, "a is not equal to 1");
//undefined
console.assert(a===2, "a is not equal to 2");
// Assertion failed: a is not equal to 2
```
![assert-console](./assert-console.png)

---
###<center> console.(time/timeLog/timeEnd) </center>
When we try to measure the performance of a website or a function we use to add `console.log(Date.now)` before and after a function and do the maths to get execution time. Javascript has a native way to achieve this. `console.time` marks the start of time, `console.timeEnd` stops the timer and gives the total time taken. `console.time` takes label as a parameter in case you want to use multiple timers. `console.timeLog` can be used anywhere in between to check time elapsed till then.

```Javascript
function checkTime() {
  console.time("checkTime");
  for (let i = 0; i <= 300000000; i++) {
		if (i === 15000000) console.timeLog("checkTime");
	}
	console.timeEnd("checkTime");
}
checkTime();

// checkTime: 24ms
// checkTime: 396ms - timer ended
```
![time-console](./time-console.png)

---
###<center> console.(count/countReset) </center>

> There are times where we want to count how many times a function is called, we need to create a dummy counter just for logginf, `console.count` handles this, everytime it is called it increments by 1 and consoles the value against the passed `label` or `default`. We can use multiple counters in same code with different labels. Any counter can be reset with `console.countRest` passing respective label or nothing in case of `default`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are times where we want to count how many times a function is called, we need to create a dummy counter just for logging, `console.count` handles this, every time it is called it increments by 1 and consoles the value against the passed `label` or `default`. We can use multiple counters in the same code with different labels. Any counter can be reset with `console.countRest` passing respective label or nothing in case of `default`.
```
